---
title: "Today's Error Insight : useHistory versus useNavigate in React Router"
excerpt: "Today, I encountered an error due to the transition from `useHistory` to `useNavigate` in React Router v6. Often, I find myself reaching for `useHistory` out of habit. ..."
coverImage: "/assets/blog/cover/react-router.png"
date: "2024-03-15"
author:
  name: "Doyun Hwang"
  picture: "/assets/blog/authors/logo.png"
ogImage:
  url: "/assets/blog/cover/react-router.png"
---

# Today's Error Insight : useHistory versus useNavigate in React Router

> Failed to compile ./src/\*\*\* Attempted import error: 'useHistory' is not exported from 'react-router-dom'. This error occurred during the build time and cannot be dismissed.

Today, I encountered an error due to the transition from `useHistory` to `useNavigate` in React Router v6. Often, I find myself reaching for `useHistory` out of habit. This time, however, I'm determined to clearly distinguish and understand the usage of both to prevent any confusion.

In React Router, both `useHistory` and `useNavigate` hooks are used for navigation, but they belong to different versions of the library. Here's a comparison between the two:

### `useHistory` Hook

- **Version:** Available in React Router v5.
- **Usage:** Allows you to access the history instance used by React Router. You can perform navigation, go back, or replace the current state in the navigation stack.
- **Example Usage:**

```javascript
import { useHistory } from "react-router-dom";

function MyComponent() {
  let history = useHistory();

  function handleClick() {
    history.push("/home");
  }

  return <button onClick={handleClick}>Go Home</button>;
}
```

**Methods:** Offers methods like `push()`, `replace()`, `go()`, `goBack()`, and `goForward()` for navigating or modifying the navigation history.

### `useNavigate` Hook

- **Version:** Introduced in React Router v6, replacing `useHistory`.
- **Usage:** Simplifies the navigation API with a more straightforward approach for programmatic navigation. Instead of getting a history object, you directly get a function to call for navigation purposes.
- **Example Usage:**

```javascript
import { useNavigate } from "react-router-dom";

function MyComponent() {
  let navigate = useNavigate();

  function handleClick() {
    navigate("/home");
  }

  return <button onClick={handleClick}>Go Home</button>;
}
```

**Methods:** Primarily provides a single function that can be used for navigation. It can be called with the path to navigate to, and optionally, an options object to replace the current entry in the history stack or to specify how far back or forward to go in the history stack.

### Key Differences

- **API Simplicity:** `useNavigate` offers a simpler and more straightforward API compared to `useHistory`.
- **Version Compatibility:** `useHistory` is for React Router v5, while `useNavigate` is for v6 and above.
- **Functionality:** While both hooks serve the purpose of navigation, `useNavigate` streamlines the process, making it more intuitive to perform common navigation tasks without directly managing the history stack.

In summary, if you are working with React Router v6 or later, you should use `useNavigate` for navigation tasks. If you are on React Router v5 or earlier, `useHistory` will be your tool for navigation.
